Now that we have the production configuration complete,
and the production database running, we can focus on the application runtime.
I'm going to focus on three options for running the
patient portal application in production.
First,
if you just want to locally execute the application with the production profile,
you can run the command gradlew, passing the prod profile as an argument.
This will start the application in a very similar fashion to how
we've been starting it throughout the course.
Now,
it's more likely that you're going to use one of the following two
options for running the application in production.
Running the application as an executable WAR means that all of the
runtime libraries have been packaged into the WAR for you.
The WAR file gets generated by using the command gradlew -Pprod bootRepackage.
You can find the WAR file in the project folder build/libs.
I'm going to use this approach shortly for demonstration.
A second option for running the application is as a deployed WAR file.
This file gets generated at the same time and in the same folder
as the executable WAR using the same command.
There are two differences from the executable WAR.
The deployable WAR does not include libraries that are marked for runtime.
Also, the deployable WAR is suffixed with the name.
original.
You would use this when deploying to a container, such as Tomcat or Websphere.
Note that in all cases,
using the production profile will automatically result in the
generation of optimized JavaScript through Webpack.
Now that we know the options, let's build an run an executable WAR.
I've opened a command prompt and navigated to the project directory.
I'm going to run the command to generate the executable WAR file.
Let me paste that in now.
Once again I've fast forwarded to the end of the build,
you should see the message that the build was successful.
Now let's try to run the WAR file.
As I'm on Windows, I'll need to use the command java -jar.
And finally, I need to include the location of our WAR file.
I'm going to drop that in now.
And I'll run the application, and once startup is complete,
we see the message that the application is running.
Now,
let's check out the SQL Server Management Studio to
ensure that Liquibase ran successfully.
I've opened up SQL Server Management Studio,
and let's once again log in as the host as localhost,
the user as sa, and password as Password with a capital P,
the number 1, and the exclamation point.
Now that we're logged in, let's navigate down to see the tables.
And here we see the tables have been generated successfully,
including the appointments table that we added.
That verifies that the database is set up correctly.
Now let's look at the log file.
I've once again opened up Eclipse,
as I didn't specify a folder during configuration the application
log file that we defined in logback-spring.
xml will be located at the root of our project.
If you don't see it, you may need to refresh the project.
Here is the log with the name patientportal.
the timestamp, and.
log.
And as we can see, the application log is working as we expected.
The final step is to verify that the application is actually running correctly.
I've opened up the browser, and I've navigated to the URL localhost port 8080.
To begin with, this verifies that anonymous usage is working as we expected.
Let's try to log in.
I'm going to click Account, Sign in,
and I'll log in with user as the Login and user as the Password.
Great, we're able to log in.
Now let's navigate to Patient, Appointments.
Okay, and here we see the list of appointments with our one line of test data.
So we've successfully verified that the production profile works for a user.
Now, let's look at one less aspect of the production profile.
I'll log out, and then I'm going to sign in again.
This time,
I'm going to sign in with admin as the Login and admin as the Password.
Okay, now I'll expand the Administration menu.
Note that earlier when we were in the development profile,
we could see sub menu items here for swagger and the database console.
Now that we're using SQL Server, it didn't choose to include the swagger profile,
both of these items have been hidden from us.
This concludes the demonstration of deploying a
production version of the application. Let's summarize what we learned.